README.md, before:

# ENS Offchain Resolver

![CI](https://github.com/ensdomains/offchain-resolver/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)

This repository contains smart contracts and a node.js gateway server that together allow hosting ENS names offchain using [EIP 3668](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3668) and [ENSIP 10](https://docs.ens.domains/ens-improvement-proposals/ensip-10-wildcard-resolution).

## Overview

ENS resolution requests to the resolver implemented in this repository are responded to with a directive to query a gateway server for the answer. The gateway server generates and signs a response, which is sent back to the original resolver for decoding and verification. Full details of this request flow can be found in EIP 3668.

All of this happens transparently in supported clients (such as ethers.js with the ethers-ccip-read-provider plugin, or future versions of ethers.js which will have this functionality built-in).

## [Gateway Server](packages/gateway)

The gateway server implements CCIP Read (EIP 3668), and answers requests by looking up the names in a backing store. By default this is a JSON file, but the backend is pluggable and alternate backends can be provided by implementing a simple interface. Once a record is retrieved, it is signed using a user-provided key to assert its validity, and both record and signature are returned to the caller so they can be provided to the contract that initiated the request.

## [Contracts](packages/contracts)

The smart contract provides a resolver stub that implement CCIP Read (EIP 3668) and ENS wildcard resolution (ENSIP 10). When queried for a name, it directs the client to query the gateway server. When called back with the gateway server response, the resolver verifies the signature was produced by an authorised signer, and returns the response to the client.

## Trying it out

Start by generating an Ethereum private key; this will be used as a signing key for any messages signed by your gateway service. You can use a variety of tools for this; for instance, this Python snippet will generate one for you:

```
python3 -c "import os; import binascii; print('0x%s' % binascii.hexlify(os.urandom(32)).decode('utf-8'))"
```

Please set the private key to gateway .env file under `packages/gateway/`:

```bash
cp ./packages/gateway/.env.example ./packages/gateway/.env
code ./packages/gateway/.env
```

First, install dependencies and build all packages:

```bash
yarn clean && yarn install && yarn build
```

Next, run the gateway with the private key on the `Goerli` testnet:

```bash
yarn start-goerli:gateway --data token.eth.json
```

The value for the private key should be the key you set earlier in the .env file.

You will see output similar to the following:

```
Serving on port 8080 with signing address 0x3B7D34d0E7e807A9D7aD74F094C5379aca61460D
```

Take a look at the data in `token.eth.json` under `packages/gateway/`; it specifies addresses for the name `token.eth` and the wildcard `*.token.eth`.

Next, edit `packages/contracts/scripts/goerli/deployments/AddressRecord.json`; replacing the address of `Signer` and `Owner` with the one output when you ran the command above.

And, edit contracts .env file under `packages/contracts/`:

```bash
cp ./packages/contracts/.env.example ./packages/contracts/.env
code ./packages/contracts/.env
```

Then, in a new terminal, connect to `Goerli` testnet with an ENS registry and the offchain resolver deployed:

```bash
cd ./packages/contracts
npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy/ENSRegistry.ts --network goerli
npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy/OffchainResolver.ts --network goerli
```

Set the domain owner and resolver address:

```bash
npx hardhat run ./scripts/operating/OffchainResolver/SetResolver.ts --network goerli
```

You will see output similar to the following:

```
ENSRegistry contract on etherscan: https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF
OffchainResolver contract on etherscan: https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0x5376350a1fA3346D50DBA8826C82aEd4Fd8a87df
Set ethdomain "eth" owner, TX: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0x3f093c0bd1c6b616c46c72032025af64080dcd193c85e615446e84d9eacee52d
Set maindomain "token" owner, TX: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0x980097bcd976d39ea30cc928e8753d4d74a349f7db5a04c16711096f02b94e9a
Set fulldomain "token.eth" resolver contract, TX: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0xc112ad0ed9497c8f6ee1cf7c966534f16e717d351285cce218f624b97fc5d352
```

Take note of the address to which the ENSRegistry was deployed (0x12315f...).

Finally, in the same terminal, run the example client to demonstrate resolving a name:

```bash
cd ../../
yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth
yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth
```

You should see output similar to the following:

```
% yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth

yarn run v1.22.19
$ yarn workspace @ensdomains/offchain-resolver-client start-goerli --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth
$ eval $(grep '^ALCHEMY_TOKEN' .env) && node dist/index.js --chainId 5 --chainName goerli --provider https://eth-goerli.alchemyapi.io/v2/${ALCHEMY_TOKEN} --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth
Resolver contract address: 0x5376350a1fA3346D50DBA8826C82aEd4Fd8a87df
ETH address: 0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266
LTC address: Ld797g7vcD34F4m3pCR5fb1Z98yEswMLGX
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a914c428696e02ed7f5b41a9f180367bebb2b408422088ac
BTC address: 1Ei9UmLQv4o4UJTy5r5mnGFeC9auM3W5P1
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a9149661c46c94700b2cc891109fffc3a49b26d1f78e88ac
Email: test@token.im
Content: ipfs://QmTeW79w7QQ6Npa3b1d5tANreCDxF2iDaAPsDvW6KtLmfB
✨  Done in 18.76s.

% yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth

yarn run v1.22.19
$ yarn workspace @ensdomains/offchain-resolver-client start-goerli --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth
$ eval $(grep '^ALCHEMY_TOKEN' .env) && node dist/index.js --chainId 5 --chainName goerli --provider https://eth-goerli.alchemyapi.io/v2/${ALCHEMY_TOKEN} --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth
Resolver contract address: 0x5376350a1fA3346D50DBA8826C82aEd4Fd8a87df
ETH address: 0x70997970C51812dc3A010C7d01b50e0d17dc79C8
LTC address: LVsLJBXMpKXF3SPkpRPJZv44XVaiyW1561
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a91474c30a9be43d3759144d1f9a8453fd8ba50480a188ac
BTC address: 14RBPsg6mBkLSJokkzeuoCkTtoeD3nK2Kz
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a914257b09874c32b4385fc93495eeeb63e64b5f81a588ac
Email: wildcard@token.im
Content: ipfs://QmTeW79w7QQ6Npa3b1d5tANreCDxF2iDaAPsDvW6KtLmfB
✨  Done in 22.56s.
```

Check these addresses against the gateway's `token.eth.json` and you will see that they match.

## Real-world usage

There are 5 main steps to using this in production:

1.  Optionally, write a new backend for the gateway that queries your own data store. Or, use the JSON one and write your records to a JSON file in the format described in the gateway repository.
2.  Generate one or more signing keys. Secure these appropriately; posession of the signing keys makes it possible to forge name resolution responses!
3.  Start up a gateway server using your name database and a signing key. Publish it on a publicly-accessible URL.
4.  Deploy `OffchainResolver` to Ethereum, providing it with the gateway URL and list of signing key addresses.
5.  Set the newly deployed resolver as the resolver for one or more ENS names.

Commit message:

[DOC] Fix some text errors
1) Fix the AddressRecord.json file is placed in the wrong position.
2) Fix the timing of opening a new terminal.
3) Provide complete info on starting the gateway server.

README.md, after:

# ENS Offchain Resolver

![CI](https://github.com/ensdomains/offchain-resolver/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)

This repository contains smart contracts and a node.js gateway server that together allow hosting ENS names offchain using [EIP 3668](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3668) and [ENSIP 10](https://docs.ens.domains/ens-improvement-proposals/ensip-10-wildcard-resolution).

## Overview

ENS resolution requests to the resolver implemented in this repository are responded to with a directive to query a gateway server for the answer. The gateway server generates and signs a response, which is sent back to the original resolver for decoding and verification. Full details of this request flow can be found in EIP 3668.

All of this happens transparently in supported clients (such as ethers.js with the ethers-ccip-read-provider plugin, or future versions of ethers.js which will have this functionality built-in).

## [Gateway Server](packages/gateway)

The gateway server implements CCIP Read (EIP 3668), and answers requests by looking up the names in a backing store. By default this is a JSON file, but the backend is pluggable and alternate backends can be provided by implementing a simple interface. Once a record is retrieved, it is signed using a user-provided key to assert its validity, and both record and signature are returned to the caller so they can be provided to the contract that initiated the request.

## [Contracts](packages/contracts)

The smart contract provides a resolver stub that implement CCIP Read (EIP 3668) and ENS wildcard resolution (ENSIP 10). When queried for a name, it directs the client to query the gateway server. When called back with the gateway server response, the resolver verifies the signature was produced by an authorised signer, and returns the response to the client.

## Trying it out

Start by generating an Ethereum private key; this will be used as a signing key for any messages signed by your gateway service. You can use a variety of tools for this; for instance, this Python snippet will generate one for you:

```
python3 -c "import os; import binascii; print('0x%s' % binascii.hexlify(os.urandom(32)).decode('utf-8'))"
```

Please set the private key to gateway .env file under `packages/gateway/`:

```bash
cp ./packages/gateway/.env.example ./packages/gateway/.env
code ./packages/gateway/.env
```

First, install dependencies and build all packages:

```bash
yarn clean && yarn install && yarn build
```

Next, run the gateway with the private key on the `Goerli` testnet:

```bash
yarn start-goerli:gateway --data token.eth.json
```

The value for the private key should be the key you set earlier in the .env file.

You will see output similar to the following:

```
yarn run v1.22.19
$ yarn workspace @ensdomains/offchain-resolver-gateway start-goerli --data token.eth.json
$ eval $(grep '^PRIVATE_KEY' .env) && node dist/index.js --private-key ${PRIVATE_KEY} --data token.eth.json

Serving on port 8080 with signing address 0x3B7D34d0E7e807A9D7aD74F094C5379aca61460D
```

Take a look at the data in `token.eth.json` under `packages/gateway/`; it specifies addresses for the name `token.eth` and the wildcard `*.token.eth`.

Next, edit `packages/contracts/deployments/goerli/AddressRecord.json`; replacing the address of `Signer` and `Owner` with the one output when you ran the command above.

And, `in a new terminal`, edit contracts .env file under `packages/contracts/`:

```bash
cp ./packages/contracts/.env.example ./packages/contracts/.env
code ./packages/contracts/.env
```

Then, connect to `Goerli` testnet with an ENS registry and the offchain resolver deployed:

```bash
cd ./packages/contracts
npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy/ENSRegistry.ts --network goerli
npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy/OffchainResolver.ts --network goerli
```

Set the domain owner and resolver address:

```bash
npx hardhat run ./scripts/operating/OffchainResolver/SetResolver.ts --network goerli
```

You will see output similar to the following:

```
ENSRegistry contract on etherscan: https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF
OffchainResolver contract on etherscan: https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/0x5376350a1fA3346D50DBA8826C82aEd4Fd8a87df
Set ethdomain "eth" owner, TX: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0x3f093c0bd1c6b616c46c72032025af64080dcd193c85e615446e84d9eacee52d
Set maindomain "token" owner, TX: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0x980097bcd976d39ea30cc928e8753d4d74a349f7db5a04c16711096f02b94e9a
Set fulldomain "token.eth" resolver contract, TX: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/0xc112ad0ed9497c8f6ee1cf7c966534f16e717d351285cce218f624b97fc5d352
```

Take note of the address to which the ENSRegistry was deployed (0x12315f...).

Finally, in the same terminal, run the example client to demonstrate resolving a name:

```bash
cd ../../
yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth
yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth
```

You should see output similar to the following:

```
% yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth

yarn run v1.22.19
$ yarn workspace @ensdomains/offchain-resolver-client start-goerli --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth
$ eval $(grep '^ALCHEMY_TOKEN' .env) && node dist/index.js --chainId 5 --chainName goerli --provider https://eth-goerli.alchemyapi.io/v2/${ALCHEMY_TOKEN} --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF token.eth
Resolver contract address: 0x5376350a1fA3346D50DBA8826C82aEd4Fd8a87df
ETH address: 0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266
LTC address: Ld797g7vcD34F4m3pCR5fb1Z98yEswMLGX
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a914c428696e02ed7f5b41a9f180367bebb2b408422088ac
BTC address: 1Ei9UmLQv4o4UJTy5r5mnGFeC9auM3W5P1
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a9149661c46c94700b2cc891109fffc3a49b26d1f78e88ac
Email: test@token.im
Content: ipfs://QmTeW79w7QQ6Npa3b1d5tANreCDxF2iDaAPsDvW6KtLmfB
✨  Done in 18.76s.

% yarn start-goerli:client --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth

yarn run v1.22.19
$ yarn workspace @ensdomains/offchain-resolver-client start-goerli --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth
$ eval $(grep '^ALCHEMY_TOKEN' .env) && node dist/index.js --chainId 5 --chainName goerli --provider https://eth-goerli.alchemyapi.io/v2/${ALCHEMY_TOKEN} --registry 0x12315f08329E9727292b055e91A5b4878E264afF foo.token.eth
Resolver contract address: 0x5376350a1fA3346D50DBA8826C82aEd4Fd8a87df
ETH address: 0x70997970C51812dc3A010C7d01b50e0d17dc79C8
LTC address: LVsLJBXMpKXF3SPkpRPJZv44XVaiyW1561
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a91474c30a9be43d3759144d1f9a8453fd8ba50480a188ac
BTC address: 14RBPsg6mBkLSJokkzeuoCkTtoeD3nK2Kz
        └─ decode to onchain hex: 0x76a914257b09874c32b4385fc93495eeeb63e64b5f81a588ac
Email: wildcard@token.im
Content: ipfs://QmTeW79w7QQ6Npa3b1d5tANreCDxF2iDaAPsDvW6KtLmfB
✨  Done in 22.56s.
```

Check these addresses against the gateway's `token.eth.json` and you will see that they match.

## Real-world usage

There are 5 main steps to using this in production:

1.  Optionally, write a new backend for the gateway that queries your own data store. Or, use the JSON one and write your records to a JSON file in the format described in the gateway repository.
2.  Generate one or more signing keys. Secure these appropriately; posession of the signing keys makes it possible to forge name resolution responses!
3.  Start up a gateway server using your name database and a signing key. Publish it on a publicly-accessible URL.
4.  Deploy `OffchainResolver` to Ethereum, providing it with the gateway URL and list of signing key addresses.
5.  Set the newly deployed resolver as the resolver for one or more ENS names.
